# Foundations

## Why reverse?
Some aims of reverse engineering:
- For security:
  - Finding vulnerabilities in OSes and other technologies to write malware
  - Finding out how malware works, so damage can be undone and infections can be prevented, along
    with attributing malware to a specific source, etc
  - Finding vulnerabilities in crypto implementations
  - Cracking DRM
  - Auditing closed-source software for vulnerabilities
- For software development:
  - Enabling interoperability with APIs etc where source/documentation is non-existent (or very
    poor)
  - Analysing/ripping off competitors
  - Auditing closed-source software for "quality"

## Low-level technologies
Compilers and OSes abstract away the hardware you're working with (the CPU and devices,
respectively). This reduces the amount of control you have over the system.

So you must learn to understand and use low-level technologies.

### Assembly language
- *The* language of reversing - need to develop a solid understanding of your platform's assembly
- Assembly == machine code (or "binary code", or "object code")
  - Assembly is a text based representation of hexadecimal machine code.
- Each command is represented by an operation code = "opcode"
  - All object code is a series of (opcode + arguments)
- To turn assembly into machine code, run it through an assembler. To turn it back, use a
  disassembler.

### Compilers
- Compilers take a file of high-level language code and output either machine code that can be
  decoded by the CPU, or a bytecode
  - Note that machine code is platform dependent (x86, x86-64, ARM, etc) whereas bytecode is not
- The disassembled output of binaries can be hard to read, because they're automatically generated,
  with weird optimisations.
  - e.g. a straightforward instruction may be replaced by a "mathematically equivalent" one that can
    be hard to understand (in terms of the context of the program)

### Virtual Machines and Bytecodes
- Java compiles to bytecode
- Bytecode is decoded not by CPU, but an interpreter
- Reversing bytecode is different to reversing machine code and "is often much simpler"

### Operating systems
- Many techniques involve the OS, since OS lies between applications and the devices

