operating_systems_and_tools/x86_architecture_basics.md, before:

# the x86 Architecture
(Source: page 8-9 of _Art of Assembly Language, 2nd Edition_ by Randall Hyde)


## The Von Neumann Architecture
The x86 architecture (and presumably most modern CPU/computer architectures?) is classified as a
Von Neumann Architecture Machine (Wikipedia link:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Von_Neumann_architecture). 

### Basic components and the system bus
This architecture has three main components:
- A CPU
- Memory
- Input/Output (I/O) devices

These components are all connected together by the system bus. The system bus is compromised of:
- The address bus
- The data bus
- The control bus

The buses are used as follows:
1. When the CPU needs to read/write data in memory or an I/O device, it places a numeric value on
   the address bus - every memory location and I/O device ports have a related "address", which is
   the value written to the address bus.
2. The data bus is used for the transfer of data between the components
3. The control bus controls the direction of the flow of data (e.g. Memory -> CPU vs. CPU -> Memory)

### Alternatives to Von Neumann
The main alternative to the Von Neumann architecture is the Harvard Architecture - the main
difference being that in Harvard, instructions and data have separate memory and pathways to access.
This has the advantage that you can't treat instructions as data and data as instructions (safety).
The disadvantage is that you can't treat instructions as data and data as instructions (speed and
the feelings of LISP wizards).

## Registers
A register on a processor is a very small store of data that the processor can "directly" access. It
is usually an order of magnitude faster than memory access.

The x86 architecture has 4 different types of registers - general-purpose, special purpose
application-accessible, segment, and special-purpose kernel-mode registers.

Segment registers aren't used much in modern OSes, so these notes won't cover them. Also, the
kernel-mode registers are for writing low-level tools, like operating systems or debuggers - these
aren't in the scope of the book I'm sourcing these notes from so they won't be included.

### General-purpose registers
(Note: This section has been adapted from the book to be more relevant to the x86-64 architecture.
Sources used for this information includes the [x86 Assembly
Wikibook](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/X86_Assembly/X86_Architecture) and the [AMD64 Architecture
Programmer's Manual, Volume 3: General-Purpose and System
Instructions](https://www.amd.com/system/files/TechDocs/24594.pdf), specifically the "Registers"
section from page xxix onward.

The x86 architecture provides 8 general-purpose registers (GPRs). These are:
- AX (accumulator, used in arithmetic operations)
- CX (counter, used in loops)
- DX (data, used in arithmetic and I/O opersations)
- BX (base, used as a pointer to data)
- SP (stack pointer, points to the top of the stack)
- BP (stack base pointer, pointes to the bottom of the stack)
- SI (source index, used to point to source in stream operations)
- DI (destination index, used to point to destination in stream operations)

All of these registers can be addressed in 16-, 32-, and 64-bit modes.
- Append E to the above register names to represent the register in 32-bit mode (EAX, ECX, EDX...)
- Append R to the above register names for 64-bit (RAX, RCX, RDX, RSP, RBP...)
- 8-bit addressing is also available for various registers, in different ways.

Along with the above registers, x86-64 introduced 8 additional GPRs: R8, R9, R10 ... R15. These also
have different addressing modes:
- Rn is the 64-bit addressing mode
- RnD is the 32-bit addressing mode, using the lowermost 32 bits (D for doubleword, 4 bytes = 32
  bits)
- RnW is the 16-bit addressing mode, using the lowermost 16 bits (W for word, 2 bytes = 16 bits)
- RnB is the 8-bit addressing mode, using the lowermost 8 bits

Commit message:

Change 'address' to 'access' wrt registers
Also add a small amount of extra detail to the 8-bit addressing mode

operating_systems_and_tools/x86_architecture_basics.md, after:

# the x86 Architecture
(Source: page 8-9 of _Art of Assembly Language, 2nd Edition_ by Randall Hyde)


## The Von Neumann Architecture
The x86 architecture (and presumably most modern CPU/computer architectures?) is classified as a
Von Neumann Architecture Machine (Wikipedia link:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Von_Neumann_architecture). 

### Basic components and the system bus
This architecture has three main components:
- A CPU
- Memory
- Input/Output (I/O) devices

These components are all connected together by the system bus. The system bus is compromised of:
- The address bus
- The data bus
- The control bus

The buses are used as follows:
1. When the CPU needs to read/write data in memory or an I/O device, it places a numeric value on
   the address bus - every memory location and I/O device ports have a related "address", which is
   the value written to the address bus.
2. The data bus is used for the transfer of data between the components
3. The control bus controls the direction of the flow of data (e.g. Memory -> CPU vs. CPU -> Memory)

### Alternatives to Von Neumann
The main alternative to the Von Neumann architecture is the Harvard Architecture - the main
difference being that in Harvard, instructions and data have separate memory and pathways to access.
This has the advantage that you can't treat instructions as data and data as instructions (safety).
The disadvantage is that you can't treat instructions as data and data as instructions (speed and
the feelings of LISP wizards).

## Registers
A register on a processor is a very small store of data that the processor can "directly" access. It
is usually an order of magnitude faster than memory access.

The x86 architecture has 4 different types of registers - general-purpose, special purpose
application-accessible, segment, and special-purpose kernel-mode registers.

Segment registers aren't used much in modern OSes, so these notes won't cover them. Also, the
kernel-mode registers are for writing low-level tools, like operating systems or debuggers - these
aren't in the scope of the book I'm sourcing these notes from so they won't be included.

### General-purpose registers
(Note: This section has been adapted from the book to be more relevant to the x86-64 architecture.
Sources used for this information includes the [x86 Assembly
Wikibook](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/X86_Assembly/X86_Architecture) and the [AMD64 Architecture
Programmer's Manual, Volume 3: General-Purpose and System
Instructions](https://www.amd.com/system/files/TechDocs/24594.pdf), specifically the "Registers"
section from page xxix onward.

The x86 architecture provides 8 general-purpose registers (GPRs). These are:
- AX (accumulator, used in arithmetic operations)
- CX (counter, used in loops)
- DX (data, used in arithmetic and I/O opersations)
- BX (base, used as a pointer to data)
- SP (stack pointer, points to the top of the stack)
- BP (stack base pointer, pointes to the bottom of the stack)
- SI (source index, used to point to source in stream operations)
- DI (destination index, used to point to destination in stream operations)

All of these registers can be accessed in 16-, 32-, and 64-bit modes.
- Append E to the above register names to represent the register in 32-bit mode (EAX, ECX, EDX...)
- Append R to the above register names for 64-bit (RAX, RCX, RDX, RSP, RBP...)
- 8-bit access is also available for various registers, in different ways. Most importantly,
  registers {A,B,C,D}X have their upper and lower 8 bits accessible using H instead of X for the
  high half, and L for the low half (e.g. AH, CL, DL...)

Along with the above registers, x86-64 introduced 8 additional GPRs: R8, R9, R10 ... R15. These also
have different modes:
- Rn is the 64-bit mode
- RnD is the 32-bit mode, using the lowermost 32 bits (D for doubleword, 4 bytes = 32
  bits)
- RnW is the 16-bit mode, using the lowermost 16 bits (W for word, 2 bytes = 16 bits)
- RnB is the 8-bit mode, using the lowermost 8 bits
