cloud/acg_intro_to_aws/README.md, before:

# A Cloud Guru - Introduction to AWS
Seems to be roughly equivalent to AWS' own "AWS Technical Essentials" course
(https://d1.awsstatic.com/training-and-certification/classroom-training/aws-technical-essentials.pdf)
- ACG's course does seem to be missing something that covers the "Monitoring, Optimization, and
  Serverless" module...

Link: https://learn.acloud.guru/course/intro-to-aws/overview

Course overview:
1. Introduction
2. Overview of AWS
  - What is AWS?
  - A brief history of AWS
  - The 10,000 Foot Overview
  - Regions and Availability Zones
3. Security and Identity
  - Seeking Security and Identity
  - Illustrating IAM
  - Summarizing Secrets Manager
  - Demonstarating Directory Service
4. Compute
  - Considering Compute
  - Exploring EC2
  - Learning Lambda
5. Storage
  - Studying Storage
  - Selecting S3 and S3 Glacier
  - Explaining EFS
  - Solving Storage Gateway
6. Databases
  - Defining Databases
  - Reviewing RDS
  - Discussing DynamoDB
  - Evaluating Elasticache
7. Networking
  - Negotiating Networking
  - Valuing VPC
  - Choosing CloudFront
  - Revising Route53
8. Management and Governance
  - Memorising Management and Governance
  - Composing CloudFormation
  - Collecting CloudWatch
  - Applying Auto Scaling
9. Machine Learning
  - Managing Machine Learning
  - Recognizing Rekognition
  - Driving DeepRacer
  - Comparing CodeGuru
10. Conclusion
  - Completing Case Studies and AWS Architecture
  - Summary and Further Learning

Commit message:

Add note to README to clarify that I won't be doing ML chapter

cloud/acg_intro_to_aws/README.md, after:

# A Cloud Guru - Introduction to AWS
Seems to be roughly equivalent to AWS' own "AWS Technical Essentials" course
(https://d1.awsstatic.com/training-and-certification/classroom-training/aws-technical-essentials.pdf)
- ACG's course does seem to be missing something that covers the "Monitoring, Optimization, and
  Serverless" module...
- I'm not covering the Machine Learning chapter because it's not part of the Technical Essentials
  course

Link: https://learn.acloud.guru/course/intro-to-aws/overview

Course overview:
1. Introduction
2. Overview of AWS
  - What is AWS?
  - A brief history of AWS
  - The 10,000 Foot Overview
  - Regions and Availability Zones
3. Security and Identity
  - Seeking Security and Identity
  - Illustrating IAM
  - Summarizing Secrets Manager
  - Demonstarating Directory Service
4. Compute
  - Considering Compute
  - Exploring EC2
  - Learning Lambda
5. Storage
  - Studying Storage
  - Selecting S3 and S3 Glacier
  - Explaining EFS
  - Solving Storage Gateway
6. Databases
  - Defining Databases
  - Reviewing RDS
  - Discussing DynamoDB
  - Evaluating Elasticache
7. Networking
  - Negotiating Networking
  - Valuing VPC
  - Choosing CloudFront
  - Revising Route53
8. Management and Governance
  - Memorising Management and Governance
  - Composing CloudFormation
  - Collecting CloudWatch
  - Applying Auto Scaling
9. Machine Learning
  - Managing Machine Learning
  - Recognizing Rekognition
  - Driving DeepRacer
  - Comparing CodeGuru
10. Conclusion
  - Completing Case Studies and AWS Architecture
  - Summary and Further Learning
